

Anyone who has spent thirty minutes reading anything I’ve written, ten minutes watching me present, or
thirty seconds in my company will not be surprised to hear I have Fucking Issues, Man (to quote Californian
vernacular).

God knows I didn’t have the sort of childhood that usually leads to this path. It’s all down to brain
chemistry. The people around me are good people and have always helped me when I flail around. The other
aspect of brain chemistry I have to work with is the impulse to create — and my ability to get in my own
way, sabotaging my own efforts. It’s like two sides of me are in constant conflict.

It’s a familiar voice that hangs around, half remorse and half envy, strongest in bookshops and libraries
(which is how I knew I wanted to write), whispering ‘everything has been done by better people that you. all
your ideas have been thought before. that story premise … its just like that thing from last
year’. 

I feel like only now, in my mid-thirties I’m getting a grip on it all. I still struggle really badly with
writing. It’s like I put myself in a straitjacket and pop a pen in my mouth. By choice. I sit down with pen
and paper and I still hear my mother telling me I need to get proper work, my father drilling me about my
ideas (although neither of them have ever explicitly done such things), my school peers asking me what I know
that they possibly couldn’t. But the distance from my childhood is helping.

I was clearly never meant to be a child genius but perhaps I might be able to give myself enough ‘experience
credit’ to chalk up something respectable over the next year or two. I hope so. I’ve held myself back more
than anyone else ever could have. I can either regret that or try to move forward.

I have the same thing with my work, with my teaching and workshops, with my presentations — and I am
significantly more confident about those. I’m pretty certain I’m not alone in this (and, if I am, for
God’s sake don’t tell me!) and I don’t really have a magic wand to wave away the voices and the imposter
syndrome. I just have this.

Whenever I fret and flail (frequently) while trying to create things, I say to myself “Someone has to be the
shittiest writer in the world but while there are people who still get paid to make up horoscopes, it won’t
be me.” Then I write. 

Every day someone is making up what can only be described as resounding horse bollocks for national
newspapers. You, at the very very least, are better than that. You will never be the worst. So, write.