

A month ago I had an emergency garage sale. I'd sold my house, and due to some confusion about when or if the
sale would in fact happen, I had to get all the things I hadn't moved into long-term storage off the property
the morning before turning over the keys. 

Some things I was able to sell, like a bicycle with accessories for $10, and a bed with mattresses and bedding
for $25. Most, however, I simply had to leave behind, surrounded by neon construction paper signs begging
people to take it away for free. Couches, bookshelves, antiques, books, clothes, electronics, you name it. All
carefully presorted to make sure it was useful enough to even bother with; all of it was. The time and expense
of acquiring the stuff I'd left on the curb bothered me, but not as much as what it suggested about what
people value. 

I can go to any IKEA in the US any given weekend and find it so choked with people that it takes three hours
to weave through the whole store, but I can't *give away* a hollowed out vintage radio cabinet with inlaid
wood, sturdy doors, and solid shelves. The market for a skinny $129 fiberboard shelf that will rock
precariously while bearing any weight at all from the day it's assembled and crack if it tips over is
flourishing and the market for something heavy and thoughtfully made that's survived a century does not
exist. 

I'm hardly the first person to comment on our love of disposability, but even if it's not a new question I'd
really like to know what the hell is wrong with all of us. Our species has existed a long time and you'd think
our fascination with anything branded "New!" would have worn off by now. Similarly, the mostly-upward trend
toward greater civility seems like it should imply also a willingness to stay and improve rather than throw
away and run away. It makes me especially uncomfortable as someone who works in the web industry.

Not to bring up bad feelings anyone had forgotten, but when the Titstare app was presented (to almost
universal disgust), I have to say honestly that what troubled me more than its obvious sexism was the fact
that it was garbage. And I mean literally garbage. It wasn't even disposable - it came used and ready to be
thrown away. It offered nothing to anyone. Resources had gone into producing it and those resources resulted
in nothing of value. At best, it was an amusement. A punchline. It bothers me because Titstare is only one of
the most egregious examples of all the basically useless shit we as an industry produce.

I'm so tired of newness. I'm tired of switching from one JavaScript framework to another merely to see what
all the hype is about. Spoiler: the hype is about the hype. Innovation is great, but where the hell is it? And
are we ever going to accept that 99% of the methods we use as engineers are just methods people used in the
70s, recontextualized?

Of course, software is much harder to repurpose than a cabinet. If something has lasted twenty years, it's
most likely because of desperation, not because it was so well built. Our model of production has always been
IKEA, and when we regard that as a virtue in all other products, I wonder if it can ever possibly change.